"Migrate from v1 to v2" guide (#113)
melange-re/melange-re.github.io: docs/how-to-guides.md

[`bs-dependencies` section](#bs-dependencies).

## Migrate

This section contains information about migrating from older versions of Melange
to newer ones.

### To v2 from v1

Melange v2 is only compatible with OCaml 5.1. In order to upgrade, let's update
the local opam switch first, to make sure the local repository gets the versions
v2 of Melange and 5.1 of OCaml:

```bash
opam update
```

Now, update the version of the OCaml compiler in the local switch to 5.1:

```bash
opam install --update-invariant ocaml-base-compiler.5.1.0
```

Finally, we can upgrade all packages to get Melange v2 and the latest version of
all libraries:

```bash
opam upgrade
```

To make sure you have the latest version of Melange, you can use the `opam list`
subcommand:

```bash
opam list --installed melange
# Packages matching: name-match(melange) & installed
# Name  # Installed    # Synopsis
melange 2.0.0          Toolchain to produce JS from Reason/OCaml
```

Before building, we have to update some parts of the configuration to make it
work with v2.

#### `melange.ppx` includes now most syntax transformations

Most of the attributes used to write bindings are now handled by `melange.ppx`.

> If you get errors of the kind `Unused attribute`, then you probably need to add

Reviewer: this will also be true for "most weird errors you can't explain". it's probably just missing the ppx

`melange.ppx` to your `library` or ` melange.emit` stanzas.

```
(library
 ...
 (preprocess
  (pps melange.ppx)))
```

> #### Warnings have been turned to alerts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Warnings have been turned into alerts
```

Some warnings were turned into alerts, so they might be visible even if using
`vendored_dirs`. To silence these alerts, either fix the root cause or silence

> them using `melange.compile_flags`.

Reviewer: this is false. it doesn't go in `melange.compile_flags`. check https://github.com/melange-re/melange/blob/d6359b4607c50b8c31b93e8625202f9f6c51d7aa/test/blackbox-tests/ppx-alert.t#L12

e.g.:
```
(preprocess (pps melange.ppx -alert -deprecated))
```

#### Wrapped libraries

Melange libraries like Belt and Js are now wrapped, so the access to modules
inside them need to be adapted. Some examples:

> - `Js_foo` modules need to be replaced with `Js.Foo` (same for `Belt_*` modules) 

Reviewer: can you give a specific example instead of `Js_foo`?

Reviewer: if we mention Belt in the line below I think we don't need the parentheses in this line

- `Belt_MapInt` is now `Belt.Map.Int`

#### Changes in `deriving`

> The `bs.deriving` attribute is replaced with `deriving`. Also, the payload taken

Reviewer: can we mention explicitly that `mel.deriving` won't be accepted?

by this attribute has been adapted to conform to ppxlib requirements.

Here is a table showing how the payload has changed in both OCaml and Reason
syntaxes:

> | Syntax | Before  | After |

Author: We would need to split the `Before` column as well. I ended up splitting in two tables:

https://github.com/melange-re/melange-re.github.io/blob/fddb06db3e07db43a1e2f52ebcd14deb4972178d/docs/how-to-guides.md?plain=1#L511-L524

> | Syntax | Before  | After |

Author: Noticed some inconsistent naming in the "Before" column, fixed in https://github.com/melange-re/melange-re.github.io/pull/113/commits/19dfd3d5bdd7cf51232f537dd5e0381cb008212a.

|---------------|---------------|---------------|
| `ml`  | `[@@bs.deriving { jsConverter =  newType  }]` | `[@@deriving  jsConverter {  newType }  ]` |
| `re`  | `[@bs.deriving {jsConverter: newType}]` | `[@deriving jsConverter({newType: newType})]`  |
| `ml`  | `[@@deriving { abstract = light }]` | `[@@deriving abstract { light }]` |
| `re`  | `[@deriving {abstract: light}]` | `[@deriving abstract({light: light})]`  |

#### Changes in `bs` prefix for attributes and extension nodes

All attributes or extension nodes prefixed with `bs` are now prefixed with

> `mel`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mel` instead.
```

> For example `@bs.as` becomes `@mel.as`, and `%bs.raw` becomes `%mel.raw`. The

Reviewer: we should mention that `@bs.*` is still accepted until v3, but `%bs.*` isn't

> only exception is the `@bs` attribute, which becomes `@u`, for uncurried

Reviewer: I think `@u` deserves its own section

application (see the ["Binding to callbacks"
section](./communicate-with-javascript.md#binding-to-callbacks)).

#### `@bs.val` is gone

The `@bs.val` attribute is no longer necessary, and can be removed from
`external` definitions. See more information in the ["Using global functions or
values"](./communicate-with-javascript.md#using-global-functions-or-values)
section.

#### `Dom` and `Node` are in their own libraries

The namespaces `Dom` and `Node` are now in the libraries `melange.dom` and
`melange.node` respectively. These libraries are not included by default by

> Melange, and will have to be added to the `libraries` field to enable their
> usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Melange, and will need to be added to the `libraries` field explicitly.
```

> #### Effects handlers 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Effect handlers 
```

> ???

Author: @anmonteiro I am not sure what we want to mention here, if anything. Could you give me a hand please?

Reviewer: I suggest we say something along these lines:

> Although Melange v2 requires OCaml 5.1, we don't yet have a good solution for compiling effect handlers to JavaScript. Until we do, they are disabled at the compiler level, and their APIs are not accessible to users.
